
gopalanmani
Contributor
5459 Points
1301 Posts
Re: Relationship between Web services and SOAP
Nov 28, 2011 07:33 AM|LINK

What is SOAP?

SOAP is a simple XML-based protocol to let applications exchange information over HTTP

    SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol
    SOAP is a communication protocol
    SOAP is for communication between applications
    SOAP is a format for sending messages
    SOAP communicates via Internet
    SOAP is platform independent
    SOAP is language independent
    SOAP is based on XML
    SOAP is simple and extensible
    SOAP allows you to get around firewalls
    SOAP is a W3C recommendation

SOAP is important for application development to allow Internet communication between programs.

Why SOAP?

It is important for application development to allow Internet communication between programs.

Today's applications communicate using Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) between objects like DCOM and CORBA, but HTTP was not designed for this. RPC represents a compatibility and security problem; firewalls and proxy servers will normally block this kind of traffic.

A better way to communicate between applications is over HTTP, because HTTP is supported by all Internet browsers and servers. SOAP was created to accomplish this.

SOAP provides a way to communicate between applications running on different operating systems, with different technologies and programming languages.


HTTP with SOAP

HTTP is a communications protocol that transports messages over a network.  SOAP is a protocol to exchange 

XML-based messages that can use HTTP to transport those messages.  In fact HTTP is the most common transport for 

SOAP messages.



Web Service with SOAP

A Web Service is programmable application logic accessible via standard Web protocols. One of these Web 

protocols is the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP). SOAP is a W3C submitted that uses standards based technologies (XML for data description and HTTP for transport) to encode and transmit 

application data.

Consumers of a Web Service do not need to know anything about the platform, object model, or programming 

language used to implement the service; they only need to understand how to send and receive SOAP messages (HTTP 

and XML). 




check this url about "Why Is SOAP Needed? in webservice"
http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=131103
